---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/coding/productivity/why-i-love-obsidian/","tags":["obsidian","productivity","notion"]}
---


Yesterday I was talking to my one of friend for so much time and she noticed that I used the sentence "I love obsidian so much" n number of times. So today I am going to write about obsidian why I loved it so much, and how a piece of software is so good in term of creativity and knowledge management system

So previously I was using a lot of Notion, from past 1 year or 2, I was a big fan of Notion how we can write such easy notes and publish it online. I was literally amazed by the Notion, it can easily publish every notes and also the databases and the nesting of the notes one note another the inside of another really amaze me. Syncing across different site is way more good than any other site. The friction to type any notes is so much handy. From 3rd year of my college I loved it so much that I completely ignore some exam preparation during exploring this notion site, also made so much class notes on this pulling different images from different website and it to the my notes was part time hobby for me. You can easily see my archive notion notes on Computer graphics. I loved the real use of Computer graphics how It change the way we look any object and how to draw any 3D object. Some engineering subject like Civil drawing don't give so much sense to all this. Since the lecture taken was during covid time and I completely missed the real gist of it.

So I make so much notes on notion like everything I come across like web-parsing different sites, pulling content from different sites, making notes through snipo on youtube. I extensively utilised the snipo notes I love the. way it connect different things like youtube notion and capturing snapshot during watching the youtube notes is really cool. So I made a tons of notes on this. Then I realised that something is missing in the Notion. I later discovered that Notion is not end-to-end encrypted and it really broke my heart since the data I am literelly providing to the notion about myself and they can easily monetise on the data provided me. And also that since the notion saves the data online managing the whole notes is really tiring to me and it lags too much some time. That's why I need a better software and also I was struggling to utilising the notion ai feature because it was so much costly I've literally paid around 3000 rupees for using notion ai service which was too heavy for my pocket and I was also not properly utilising it services so I was literally paying for nothing.

Then I switched to Obsidian, here everything was customisable I am loving this piece of software so much. Main thing is that all the notes are in the file structure and publishing is really easy and dataview is so much amazing it can list all the notes in increasing order of recent notes which comes very handy and so much customisation comes with the great learning curve. It took me some time to understand the software but once I understood everything comes very easy. Since I was not working like normal markdown in notion. here the only pain is using markdown onto everything no fancy shortcut but working here is also easy only thing is you have to take some time to get easy with the every command. I also utilised the copilot feature in obsidian with generating the api key for gemini 2.0. I realised late that the default view is the best view earlier I was using the full screen view for much more content but later I am switching to the default view. 
Overall It was great to be here and I'm not going to leave this place so much early. Thanks for reading and thank to the devs of obsidian to makes this so beautiful.
***

