---
{"dg-publish":true,"tags":["#gov","geopolitics"],"permalink":"/view-through-my-lens/different-political-ideology/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"created":"2025-04-29T16:45:10.418+05:30","updated":"2025-04-30T19:30:15.779+05:30"}
---

Here was a scenario, During my internship at Barclays I was sitting with the co-interns and there was a political discussion was going on. Since during those days there was a election in Great Britain also some protest among the black going. They were discussing about left and right wing of politics, and that time I felt how I am dumb that I does not read the newspaper or follow some political ideologies. Another time I felt the same way was when I was reading the book on Bose and there was a chapter named 'Irk of ism' something like that, name is not that important but the gist was whether Bose was fascist or communist or left wing politician or right wing politician.
Ok! Now I should stop yapping about different stories now straight to the point. 
Why we bother about different Ideologies ? 
So the concept of right or left wing ideology comes from the french revolution where in the general assembly there were two wing one wings (one who supported the president rule or monarchy or aristocracy) sat right to the president and those one who supported the republics and democracy sat left. In current world the right means the capitalist government and the left means that more of communist government. Yes that's right.
Countries like the US have the right government and the great example of communist government is Russia. That's why world have the cold war in our history and several other war is also going on such as proxy war that was in Iran and Israel. Also In Vietnam, in 1975 there was a great war between America soldier and Vietnamese Soldier where around 60000 of American Soldier died since Vietnam was supported by the Russia back then the President of US was Nixon one of most controversial President and their remarks on Ms Indira Gandhi. Since they believe that the all the nation become right wing or left wing once one nation become on either side and rest will follow these was also called as "Dominos effect".
Current the UK have the centre-left party. India have centre aligned party. Due to cold war and tension between the UK and Russia also forced to the bringing of pro-soviet element in India