---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/view-through-my-lens/india-s-and-tech/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","created":"2025-04-30T22:38:15.542+05:30","updated":"2025-05-04T14:10:23.664+05:30"}
---

***
## Engineering Colleges

There are around 8876 Engineering colleges in India right now. Around 1/3rd of them are government-run. Regarding Top 100 colleges of India consist of famous IIT, NIT, IIIT's, IISC and IISER, VIT, and BITS, and some of the private colleges. Funding of Top colleges of India per Year for IIT's only are 8132 crores INR and for NIT's around 3200 crores. Along of IIT's will be funded for 1/3rd of 30000 crores spent all over different colleges of Higher Education including IIM's in India. Accordingly the placement report of IIT's is good but seem to be declined after covid outbreak. There is 10-15 % decline in Avg Package of an IITian. Considering Myself from IIT Dhanbad, there are 8000 student resides here and among them 4000-5000 are BTECH student. Among 60-70% student get placed with 2025 Batch passout. Among 1000 student of 2025 batch top 10-20 % goes into very good companies like Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Oracle, Arista, Walmart with decent package ranging from 30-50 lacks INR but around 300 student get less than 10 lakhs of  annual salary ctc and many of them also settled down for working in different field other than they pursued for entire their course of study like teaching in IIT preparation coaching institutes like Aakash, Bakliwal, FIITJEE etc.
Yeah there is the big problem of premier institute of our country, student are not so much serious about the innovation and nation building but more serious about the job-perspective and this is really worries me but due to global possibility of recession and job-cuts leading to this kind of situtation. Considering the scenario here College lower in funding and NIRF ranking than IIT Dhanbad can easily be predicted that similar trends follow there.

Innovation and Incubation
***
Many of the startup which is very good in terms of revenue generation are from the IITian which pushing the tech boundaries are Postman, Browserstack, Rubrik and Rippler, OxxL etc. The Companies like this helping the humankind for future innovation in tech and expanding the horizon of tech sector in India. Major areas like AI, one the India' top AI chat service is provided by Krutrim AI, which is part of OLA AI. Since in India there is low innovation we're not able to compete with the nation like China where Deepseek R1 and different other AI models outperfomed the American's. Since the Deepseek was a company based on High frequency trading platform and they are already using the several H100 GPU for different Natural language processing services and then only one of their engineer come of with brilliant idea of sequencing model and optimised it so much that now we can reduce the overall complexity to run and train different dataset with high optimisation. India's is far behind in this game since there is lack of proper infrastructure and competition to build and AI system. Funding is given but due to less incubation and employee mindset in the people lead to this situation. Also government can't help much if out higher education is in this situation. And this is very clear with Sam Altman mind when he speak about this "Totally hopeless... you shouldn’t try…’ to AI leaders!" during his visit to India last year. Whereas IT Minister Vaishnav promised that the foundation model will be buillt in less than 10 months. Whatever the condition India focus must be to develop innovation and give the student of premier institute of India to think out of the box rather than be a part of rat race and bagging crores of package and kill the genuine interest and innovation of the student. Due to cheap labour in India, Most the startups in India running toward fast doorstep delivery. Which is pathetic and most of Indian youth is getting paid by this startup and part of these cheap labour which is itself. Rubrik itself founded by Indian mostly IITian but outside of India in USA, similarly Rippling, S prasanna the cofounder of Rippling which paid most of the student of IITIAN with highest packages built outside of India. Another Companies like Nutanix are built by Indian but Outside of India, Similarly for Glean. There are several example we can given but the Indian licence raj and poor infrastructure and lack of innovation and security and legal obstruction. They are moving to the foreign countries to build something great leaving India's behind in the tech race.

***






