---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/view-through-my-lens/my-experience-in-pune/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"created":"2025-09-09T21:27:42.252+05:30","updated":"2025-09-09T22:45:33.000+05:30"}
---

So It's been 2 months in Pune I went to place like Lonavala, Sinhagad and Swargate and also DagruSeth. In this mean time I've also went to Bangalore, Kolkata, and Dhanbad, then Piro then Back to Pune and Shanivar Vada Tukai mandir. In Lonavala we went to the Bhushi dam,  Karla caves, Lonavala lake, Some dam, and also the Ekvira Mandir in Lonavala. Some Interesting fact about I've realise with Pune is I almost never experience the city life so much so in Pune. Talking about the Living condition I'm currently residing in the PG which is stanza living co-living PG. In almost 15 days I'll be shifting in Flat. My Office is 3 Km away from my PG. Daily I book for the Uber in morning around 9-9:30 am.  Which cost me around Rs 75 and can almost goes upto 100 rs. 
For mean time I sit with a table in evening with some PG in mates and try to code around 1 hour also daily I'm trying to go the nearby gym. The Gym will cost around 2500 rs per month. Sometimes I also went to the the Badminton to the Shivaji Stadium which is also known as Balewadi Stadium. The Balewadi Stadium is known for it Dangal Movie which is shooting location for this. Also 2010 CommonWealth Game happen over there. Some Football Matches like Pro Kabaddi League also happen there. I can share more facts about my life style like every night I crave for the Dominos and In the evening with pg inmates I also went for Dhabeli and Vada Pav. I almost every day consume atleast one vada Pav. This is something I never experienced with samosas in my home city. For food the PG food is ok sometimes I order from Zomato on weekends. There is one biryani shop nearby which is PK Biryani offer very good Biryani @192 rupees. I some initial week I was almost busy with searching for flat finally we've found one flat for with rent for 36000 rent for 3BHK flat. 
Some interesting places I visited is Tukai Devi Mandir on the top of the  Baner Hills. Where I found out this was very old Mandir built by Rastrakut over 2500 year ago. Which holds the Baneshwar Mandir where a shiv linga is placed under the rock cutted cave like structure. 
Talking about the Initial day with Arista. I really like the place I found out the most of developer are very similar to me. Very welcoming and friendly in nature. My manager is also a very humble guy I think he is manager due to his experience not because of his excellence but It was overall good working with him. Right now I've also assigned a mentor for me. Which is also a good guy Personally I feel I deserved a good mentor. I think he is more UI guy. Let's leave it but overall I feel very comfortable over there in office hours expecially on the days where there is no mandate to come. So other than Mandate day I feel very light , about fun thing , we went to Igolf near Pune city. I feel like this is best team outing possible where we've assigned the team in which there were 2 extra member other than the my lunch group. I almost tried for the first time for Golf and probably I feel I'm good golfer. So that was crazy part of this company.
Also Overall I understand the process of how software engineering work over Arista. The tech stack and most importantly the Git and Gerrit at Arista which is much to learn about when we join any MNC's So I learn branching Interactive rebasing the code and also In the front of my PG i've met another guy from another team with which I go for badminton several people I've met in the way. Mostly from the IITs. 
Ok. Some interesting fact which've come through in the Pune City. 
Lonavala is best place to visit nearby I visited in Monsoon and I almost felt that this is place where you can imagine the scariest heaven kind of thing. I feel that was good place to visit but too much risk involved in it. I was surprised with the Karla caves which was on the top of a mountain carved from 10-15 BCE by Buddhas and lets talk about Bike renting so we went through Bike and it cost around 800rs per bike rent. But my bike rider is kind of novice and that was somewhat risky to manage too. Ekvira Mandir was built by Koli people and belived that the Pandavas get blessed from the Kuldevta for it's during the exile period. Interesting thing about that I was not allowed to the enter into this because I've wore a half pants. 

Some city shopping I've experienced like Trends, Zudio, Puma, and some startups like Snitch and similar like Sketchers. For the first time in life I've purchase so much loose fitting jeans which comes under Rs 800. 

When I went to Bangalore the flight cost around 3600 and Interesting thing is noticed about Bangalore is this was completely an other aura for it. More tech guy Everything feels very fast in that city. So much traffic so many young people. Feels like every place has been occupoied for availing the jobs for young people. Some startup I feel are aggressively spreading over there new malls are opening and everywhere there is ad of Pg's are running on I almost tried to visit for the Mysore which is nearby best city to visit. The way to PG from the Bangalore Airport seems to very fine actually I felt that I'm outside of India actually the Bus I got very quickly for Marathalli and went for 310 for around 34 Km. I return from that Bangalore with Bus which is actually a bad decision but with certain situation we can't afford for flight. Actually I feel I felt good in Bangalore with some many tech guy everyone living condition wasn't much good living everywhere in PG. In Pune I feel there is more family vibes than what I felt in Bangalore maybe because I feel I'm living in outskirts of the Pune the Hinjewadi is 10 Km away from here. 
I'm very sure the Marathi places names are actually interesting. The bus ride to Pune was very tiring It almost take around 18 hours to reach here. But I felt we can afford this.

In office I feel I can smell code every where most of the people I heard around is talking about the code. My Office on the 10th floor and I went to 700 m away for my daily lunch where some office colleague. Which is good thing I think I god some time to roam around> 

