---
{"dg-publish":true,"tags":["currentAffairs","India"],"permalink":"/view-through-my-lens/this-week-in-current-28-apr/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","created":"2025-04-27T17:55:08.605+05:30","updated":"2025-04-30T09:49:45.833+05:30"}
---


So in this notebook I will write my view's on India's current situation wrt governancy,  Decision of our Prime minister. I will describe different policies of government in term of different affairs political landscape, geopolitical scenario, and different economic policies, internal affairs and link with the other. One thing's is that India's economic conditions is not very good but we can see the there is a steady growth. Economic policy are kept in the top of the priority list, repo rate has make a cut to by 50 basis point and it is now at 6%. Major focus of RBI is to increase in the purchasing power of the local people so that they can purchase local goods more, earlier this year the reduction in the tax regime indicated that the early retaliation of Trump trade war and imposition of heavy tariff on the our country. So this makes us to ready enough and increase the purchase of goods in the country only. Where we're lacking is the projected growth in the per-capita over several year is still very low lesser than some of south east countries like Indonesia and Vietnam. Country growth is self sustaining and self reliant in nature but as long as countries across the globe is far away from recession. 
Talking about the defence affair, Pahalgam terrorist attack was devastating experience this year for entire country. Citizens have show tremendous reaction over this, trending over twitter, shorts, and stories and even opposition condemned this action and supporting the government to take strong action. In response centre has shown retaliation by regulating the 1960's Indo-pak water treaty, but kept hold on this today they abruptly increase the flow of water by 90-92 cm of water overflow and this begin many Pakistanis local people  capturing this moment and sharing all over internet. Also India's ban on the visa for Pakistanis. Most interesting thing happen was the reaction from Pak Chief Army Officer statement over Terrorist attack during interview from sky network reporter, she ask the reason behind all this and he replied that this is our foreign policy, we do all this from 3 decades with support from west especially America and Britain later he apologise for this statement. But for India's either Pulwama or Pahalgam it's constantly biggest security threat's arising due to illegal occupation of pak over Kashmir, every time India's getting international recognition Pakistan plan another attack on India this does not only affect India's attention toward eradicating the terrorism and bring focus on acquiring the POK. International Media like BBC network capture the reaction but in another way, a very unrealistic and wrong portraying of India has shown by the BBC. By the way everything seems to be okay now. 